[Go] feat: update docs for dd-trace-go/v2 (#25897)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/migration.md

> ---

Reviewer: I don't believe we are linking to this guide from anywhere else? If we want to drive users to upgrade, we could add a note by some of the other docs that mention v2 and point them here.

title: Migrating from v1 to v2 of the Go Tracer
description: 'Upgrade your Go tracer from v1 to v2.'
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/dd-api'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Get started with v1 of the Go Tracer'
    - link: 'tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/dd-api-v2'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Get started with v2 of the Go Tracer'
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are currently using version v1.x of the Go Tracer. If you are already on v2.x of the tracer, please visit <a href="tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/dd-api-v2">Go v2 Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> documentation instead.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are using version v1.x of the Go tracer. If you are using v2.x, see <a href="tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/dd-api">Go Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> instead.</div>
```
Note, the file the link was referencing initially doesn't exist, so I pointed to the custom instrumentation doc that has v1 and v2.

> This document outlines migrating from an older version of the Datadog tracer (v1.x.x) to v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. 
```

> Datadog's v2 version of the Go tracer provides a huge refactor of our API, moving away from interfaces to provide flexibility in future works, isolating our integrations to prevent false-positives from security scanners, and enforcing proper library patterns to prevent misuse. This update is the result of continuous feedback from customers, the community, as well as our extensive internal usage. 
> 
> To assist with the migration from an older version of the tracer, we have also provided a new migration tool to help with the most essential changes made in v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2 of the Go tracer introduces significant API improvements:

- Removes interfaces to enable future flexibility
- Isolates integrations to prevent false positives from security scanners
- Enforces library patterns to prevent misuse

To simplify the migration process, Datadog provides a migration tool that handles essential code updates automatically.
```
```suggestion
Datadog's v2 version of the Go tracer provides a huge refactor of our API, moving away from interfaces to provide flexibility in future works, isolating our integrations to prevent false-positives from security scanners, and enforcing proper library patterns to prevent misuse. This update is the result of continuous feedback from customers, the community, as well as our extensive internal usage. 

To assist with the migration from an older version of the tracer, we have also provided a new migration tool to help with the most essential changes made in v2.
```

> ## Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migration tool features
```

> The migration tool will allow a simplified process to upgrade your tracing code from `dd-trace-go` version 1.6x to v2.0. By running this tool, you will be able to make quick fixes for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration tool automatically updates your tracing code when upgrading from `dd-trace-go` v1.6x to v2.0. It makes the following changes:
```

> * Changing import URLs from `dd-trace-go.v1` to `dd-trace-go/v2`.
> * Importing and using the certain types from `ddtrace/tracer` rather than from `ddtrace`.
> * Calling `Span` and `SpanContext` using pointers.
> * Replacing `WithServiceName()`, which is no longer supported, with `WithService()` calls.
> * Using `TraceIDLower()` to get an `uint64` Trace ID instead of `TraceID()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates import URLs from `dd-trace-go.v1` to `dd-trace-go/v2`.
* Moves imports and using certain types from `ddtrace/tracer` to `ddtrace`.
* Converts `Span` and `SpanContext` calls to use pointers.
* Replaces unsupported `WithServiceName()` calls with `WithService()`.
* Updates `TraceID()` calls to `TraceIDLower()` for obtaining `uint64` trace IDs.
```

> ## Running the Migration Tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the migration tool
```

> Use the migration tool by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run these commands to use the migration tool:
```

```shell
go get github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check
go run github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check/main.go
```

> For more information about the migration, please visit our [godoc page](https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the migration, see the [godoc page for dd-trace-go v2](https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/).
```

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2 of the Go Tracer
description: 'Upgrade your Go tracer from v1 to v2.'
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Get started with v1 of the Go Tracer'
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are using version v1.x of the Go tracer. If you are already using v2.x, see <a href="/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api">Go Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> instead.</div

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are using version v1.x of the Go tracer. If you are already using v2.x, see <a href="/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api">Go Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> instead.</div>
```

> This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. **Note**: v2 is in Preview.
```

Version 2 of the Go tracer introduces significant API improvements:

- Removes interfaces to enable future flexibility
- Isolates integrations to prevent false positives from security scanners
- Enforces library patterns to prevent misuse

To simplify the migration process, Datadog provides a migration tool that handles essential code updates automatically.

## Migration tool features

The migration tool automatically updates your tracing code when upgrading from `dd-trace-go` v1.x to v2.0. It makes the following changes:

* Updates import URLs from `dd-trace-go.v1` to `dd-trace-go/v2`.
* Moves imports and using certain types from `ddtrace/tracer` to `ddtrace`.
* Converts `Span` and `SpanContext` calls to use pointers.
* Replaces unsupported `WithServiceName()` calls with `WithService()`.
* Updates `TraceID()` calls to `TraceIDLower()` for obtaining `uint64` trace IDs.

## Using the migration tool

Run these commands to use the migration tool:

```shell
go get github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check
go run github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check/main.go
```

> For more information about the migration, , see the [godoc page for dd-trace-go v2](https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the migration, see the [godoc page for dd-trace-go v2](https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/).
```

Reviewer: @hannahkm , could you also please change this link to be reference style? In other words, like `[godoc page for dd-trace-go v2][1]` with the link referenced at the bottom of the page? Thanks!

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2 of the Go Tracer
description: 'Upgrade your Go tracer from v1 to v2.'
aliases:
  - /tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/opentracing/go
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Get started with v1 of the Go Tracer'
---

<div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are using version v1.x of the Go tracer. If you are already using v2.x, see <a href="/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api">Go Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> instead.</div>

> This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. **Note**: v2 is in Preview.

Reviewer 2: Recommend linking so this doesn't need to get updated when we go GA

```suggestion
This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. See [Go tracer support][2].
```

- Removes interfaces to enable future flexibility
- Isolates integrations to prevent false positives from security scanners
- Enforces library patterns to prevent misuse

To simplify the migration process, Datadog provides a migration tool that handles essential code updates automatically.

## Migration tool features

The migration tool automatically updates your tracing code when upgrading from `dd-trace-go` v1.x to v2.0. It makes the following changes:

* Updates import URLs from `dd-trace-go.v1` to `dd-trace-go/v2`.
* Moves imports and using certain types from `ddtrace/tracer` to `ddtrace`.
* Converts `Span` and `SpanContext` calls to use pointers.
* Replaces unsupported `WithServiceName()` calls with `WithService()`.
* Updates `TraceID()` calls to `TraceIDLower()` for obtaining `uint64` trace IDs.

## Using the migration tool

Run these commands to use the migration tool:

```shell
go get github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check
go run github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/tools/v2check/main.go
```

For more information about the migration, see the [godoc page for dd-trace-go v2][1].

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[1]: https://godoc.org/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/v2/
[2]: /tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/go/?tab=v1#go-tracer-support
```

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2 of the Go Tracer
description: 'Upgrade your Go tracer from v1 to v2.'
aliases:
  - /tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/opentracing/go
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Get started with v1 of the Go Tracer'
---

<div class="alert alert-info">This documentation assumes that you are using version v1.x of the Go tracer. If you are already using v2.x, see <a href="/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/go/dd-api">Go Custom Instrumentation using the Datadog API</a> instead.</div>

This guide explains how to migrate from Go Tracer v1.x to v2. **Note**: v2 is in Preview.

Version 2 of the Go tracer introduces significant API improvements:

- Removes interfaces to enable future flexibility
- Isolates integrations to prevent false positives from security scanners
- Enforces library patterns to prevent misuse

> Following the full release of v2, versions v1.x will receive decreased support. Bug fixes, security fixes, and basic maintenance remains supported in v1 until the end of 2025. After this point, maintenace for v1 is dropped. To receive new features, upgrade your Go Tracer to v2.

Reviewer 2: This may be best as a table on the [Go compatibility page](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/go). Something like the below, but with actual dates

| Version  | Preview | General Availability (GA) | Maintenance | End-of-life (EOL) |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| v1 | 2022-01-01 | 2022-01-01 | 2024-12-31 | 2026-01-01 |
| v2 | 2024-08-10 | 2025-01-01 | TBD | TBD |

| **Level**                                              | **Support provided**                                                                                                                                |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <span id="support-unsupported">Unsupported</span>      |  No implementation. Contact [Datadog support][2] for special requests.                                                                              |
| <span id="support-beta">Preview</span>                 |  Initial implementation. May not yet contain all features. Support for new features and bug and security fixes are provided on a best-effort basis. |
| <span id="support-ga">General Availability (GA)</span> |  Full implementation of all features. Full support for new features and bug and security fixes.                                                     |
| <span id="support-maintenance">Maintenance</span>      |  Full implementation of existing features. Does not receive new features. Support for bug and security fixes only.                                  |
| <span id="support-eol">End-of-life (EOL)</span>        |  No support.                                                                                                                                        |
